1 - what is IAAS

>>Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) is a type of cloud computing service that offers essential compute, storage, and networking resources on demand, 
 on a pay-as-you-go basis. IaaS is one of the four types of cloud services, along with software as a service (SaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and serverless
 
 2 - what PAAS
 
 >>Platform as a Service (PaaS) is a complete cloud environment that includes everything developers need to build, run, and manage applications—from servers and 
 operating systems to all the networking, storage, middleware, tools, and more.
 
 3 - what is SAAS
 
 >>What is SaaS? Software as a service (or SaaS) is a way of delivering applications over the Internet—as a service. Instead of installing and maintaining software,
 you simply access it via the Internet, freeing yourself from complex software and hardware management
 
 4 - Define and explain the three basic types of cloud services and the AWS products that are built based on them?

>>The three basic types of cloud services are:

Computing
Storage
Networking
Here are some of the AWS products that are built based on the three cloud service types:

Computing - These include EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, Auto-Scaling, and Lightsat.

Storage - These include S3, Glacier, Elastic Block Storage, Elastic File System.

Networking - These include VPC, Amazon CloudFront, Route53

5 - what is virtual machines

>>In computing, a virtual machine is the virtualization/emulation of a computer system. virtual machine software can run programs and operating systems, store data, connect
to networks and doother computing functions and reuires maintenance such as updates and system montoring

6 - What are the different types of virtualization in AWS, and what are the differences between them?

>>Hardware Virtual Machine (HVM)
It is a fully virtualized hardware, where all the virtual machines act separate from each other. These virtual machines boot by executing a master boot record 
in the root block device of your image.
>>Paravirtualization (PV)
Paravirtualization-GRUB is the bootloader that boots the PV AMIs. The PV-GRUB chain loads the kernel specified in the menu.
>>Paravirtualization on HVM
PV on HVM helps operating systems take advantage of storage and network I/O available through the host.

7 - Name some of the AWS services that are not region-specific

>>AWS services that are not region-specific are:

IAM
Route 53
Web Application Firewall 
CloudFront

8 - what is VPC

>>Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) gives you full control over your virtual networking environment, including resource placement, connectivity, and security. 
Get started by setting up your VPC in the AWS service console.

>>Vpc is logical boundary
>>vpc id is globally uniqe
>>you can stop the particular ip one ec2 to another ip through routing table in peering
 
9 - What is the relation between the Availability Zone and Region?

>>AWS regions are separate geographical areas, like the US-West 1 (North California) and Asia South (Mumbai). On the other hand, availability zones
are the areas that are present inside the regions. These are generally isolated zones that can replicate themselves whenever required.

10  - what is VPC Perrring

>>A VPC peering connection is a networking connection between two VPCs that enables you to route traffic between them using private IPv4 addresses or IPv6 addresses.
Instances in either VPC can communicate with each other as if they are within the same network

>>you can also create the vpc peering one region mumbai to another region ohio like this
>>you can also vpc peering one account to another account

===disadvantages of peering

>>increase in the vpc will increase in the vpc peerings
>>each vpc needs a vpg for vpn connections

11 -   what is nat-gateway

>>A NAT gateway is a Network Address Translation (NAT) service. You can use a NAT gateway so that instances in a private subnet can connect to services outside your 
VPC but external services cannot initiate a connection with those instances
 
12 - what is NAT-Instance

>>NAT-A NAT (Network Address Translation) instance is, like a bastion host, an EC2 instance that lives in your public subnet. A NAT instance, however, allows your 
private instances outgoing connectivity to the internet while at the same time blocking inbound traffic from the internet

13 - What are the differences between NAT Gateways and NAT Instances?
 
NAT-Gateway
1 - nat gateway managed by aws 
2 - nat gateway canot assigned security groups
3 - nat gateway highly availble
4 - nat gateway bandwidth is upto 45 mbps
5 - nat gateway perfomance is good

NAT-Instance
1 - nat instance managed by you
2 - nat instance can assignes security groups
3 - nat instance is also highly availble
4 - nat instance bandwidth is depends on instnace bandwidth
5 - nat instance performance compared to nat gateway is average

14 - what is Vpc End-point

>>A VPC endpoint enables you to privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services and VPC endpoint services powered by PrivateLink without requiring an 
internet gateway,NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection.
 
 15 - what is gateway end-point

>>gateway end-point is a gateway that you specific as a target for a route in your table for traffic destined to a supported AWS service

16 - what is firewall

firewall is security group it is used to control the incoming and outgoing traffic

>>firewall two types

1-stateful firewall
>>it is two-way handshake  process

2-stateless firewall
>>it is not two-way handshake

17 - what is NACL

>>A network access control list (NACL) is an optional layer of security for your VPC that acts as a firewall for controlling traffic in and out of one or more subnets.
You might set up network ACLs with rules similar to your security groups in order to add an additional layer of security to your VPC.

>>when you created vpc automatically create nacl 
>>if anyone want say to change something nacl first ask send a mail 
>>don't do changes in nacl in production environment
>>need to add every rule in inbound and outbound  -->if you add ssh in inbound it will not allow so you need to add outbound also
 
18 - What is OpenVPN used for?

Open source OpenVPN uses VPN technologies to secure and encrypt data sent over the internet. Its custom VPN protocol uses SSL/TLS for key exchange. 
Since its creation in 2001 it has become the de facto standard in the open source networking space with over 60 million downloads 
 
19 - What is a transit gateway?

A transit gateway is a network transit hub that you can use to interconnect your virtual private clouds (VPCs) and on-premises networks. As your cloud infrastructure 
expands globally,inter-Region peering connects transit gateways together using the AWS Global Infrastructure. 
 
20 - Is there any other alternative tool to log into the cloud environment other than console?

Putty
AWS CLI for Linux
AWS CLI for Windows
AWS CLI for Windows CMD
AWS SDK
Eclipse

21 - what is EC2-Instance

>>You can use Amazon EC2 to launch as many or as few virtual servers as you need, configure security and networking, and manage storage. Amazon EC2 enables you to 
scale up or down to handle changes in requirements or spikes in popularity, reducing your need to forecast traffic.
 
22 - what is AMI In AWS

>>An Amazon Machine Image (AMI) is a supported and maintained image provided by AWS that provides the information required to launch an instance. You must specify 
an AMI when you launch an instance. You can launch multiple instances from a single AMI when you require multiple instances with the same configuration. 
 
>>AMI id is different of every region and every image
>>you can use in production mostly use already created AMIs

 23 - You are trying to provide a service in a particular region, but you do not see the service in that region. Why is this happening, and how do you fix it?

>>Not all Amazon AWS services are available in all regions. When Amazon initially launches a new service, it doesn’t get immediately published in all the regions. 
They start small and then slowly expand to other regions. So, if you don’t see a specific service in your region, chances are the service hasn’t been published in your region yet. 
However, if you want to get the service that is not available, you can switch to the nearest region that provides the services

24 - what is authentication and authriozation

>>authentication your accessing or login into the applicatio or portal entry only
>>authrozation is nothing but you should be assign some roles are features

25 - Define Amazon EC2 regions and availability zones?

>>Availability zones are geographically separate locations. As a result, failure in one zone has no effect on EC2 instances in other zones. When it comes to regions, they may have one or more availability zones.
This configuration also helps to reduce latency and costs

26 - Explain Amazon EC2 root device volume?

>>The image that will be used to boot an EC2 instance is stored on the root device drive. This occurs when an Amazon AMI runs a new EC2 instance. And this root device volume is supported by EBS or an instance store. 
In general, the root device data on Amazon EBS is not affected by the lifespan of an EC2 instance

27 - Mention the different types of instances in  Amazon EC2 and explain its features.

>>General Purpose Instances: They are used to compute a range of workloads and aid in the allocation of processing, memory, and networking resources.
>>Compute Optimized Instances: These are ideal for compute-intensive applications. They can handle  batch processing workloads, high-performance web servers, machine learning inference, and various other tasks
>>Memory Optimized: They process workloads that handle massive datasets in memory and deliver them quickly.
>>Accelerated Computing: It aids in the execution of floating-point number calculations, data pattern matching, and graphics processing. These functions are carried out using hardware accelerators.
>>Storage Optimised: They handle tasks that require sequential read and write access to big data sets on local storage

28 - What do you understand by 'changing' in Amazon EC2?

>>To make limit administration easier for customers, Amazon EC2 now offers the option to switch from the current 'instance count-based limitations' to the new 'vCPU Based restrictions.' 
As a result, when launching a combination of instance types based on demand, utilization is measured in terms of the number of vCPUs.

29 - How do you upgrade or downgrade a system with near-zero downtime?
You can upgrade or downgrade a system with near-zero downtime using the following steps of migration:

Open EC2 console
Choose Operating System AMI
Launch an instance with the new instance type
Install all the updates
Install applications
Test the instance to see if it’s working
If working, deploy the new instance and replace the older instance
Once it’s deployed, you can upgrade or downgrade the system with near-zero downtime.
Take home these interview Q&As and get much more. Download the complete AWS Interview Guide here:

30 - What are the tools and techniques that you can use in AWS to identify if you are paying more than you should be, and how to correct it?
You can know that you are paying the correct amount for the resources that you are using by employing the following resources:

Check the Top Services Table
It is a dashboard in the cost management console that shows you the top five most used services. This will let you know how much money you are spending on the resources in question.
Cost Explorer
There are cost explorer services available that will help you to view and analyze your usage costs for the last 13 months. You can also get a cost forecast for the upcoming three months.
AWS Budgets
This allows you to plan a budget for the services. Also, it will enable you to check if the current plan meets your budget and the details of how you use the services.
Cost Allocation Tags
This helps in identifying the resource that has cost more in a particular month. It lets you organize your resources and cost allocation tags to keep track of your AWS costs.

31 - 
 

















